# SSH Basics
Secure Shell (SSH) allows you to login into remote machines for administration, run commands remotely, deploy applications, upload/download files and automate system administration tasks.

## Getting Started
Can log into a remote machine using the following command
```sh
ssh -o "StrictHostKeyChecking=no" -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa root@prod-gj1lt9xw
```
- **-i** allows us to specify the pivate key to use to log into a remote machine
- **root** is a user we want to login as
- **prod-gj1lt9xw** is the hostname of the server
```sh
**Command Output**
The authenticity of host 'prod-xhdfmttw (10.x.x.x)' can't be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is SHA256:pB1enuLtdg6tIPn3Jm+zBkNFPSbm5s7Ym5js8FMyaOE.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
```
>This key fingerprint is there to ensure you cross-check the signature of the remote machine, which ensures that you are connecting to a machine that you actually intended to connect to.
However, it’s a blocker if we want to run automated commands. We can avoid the host authenticity check using the following command by explicitly adding (whitelisting) the target host’s fingerprint to a list of known hosts in the ~/.ssh/known_hosts file.

If you had provided yes for the ssh authenticity warning, the **ssh** command would have logged us in the production system. We can use the hostname command to verify we are in the remote machine.
```sh 
ssh-keyscan -t rsa prod-gj1lt9xw >> ~/.ssh/known_hosts
hostname
```
## Run Commands remotely
You can use ssh to run commands remotely on the remote machine.
Anything in **quotes** is run on the remote machine. The remote machine in the above example is **prod-gj1lt9xw**
```sh
ssh root@prod-gj1lt9xw "hostname"
**Command Output**
prod-gj1lt9xw
```
The above command **hostname** ran on the production machine, and we got the production’s hostname instead of the devsecops-box’s hostname.
## Recap
1. **sshd** server needs to be configured to allow ssh
2. **ssh-keygen** generates a new public-private key pair for authentication
3. **private key** is never shared with anyone, it is only used during authentication
4. **public key** needs to exported to **~/.ssh/authorized_keys** on a server to which we need to connect to
5. **ssh-copy-id** helps in copying public keys to the authorized_keys file
