# How to Embed SonarQube Scan into GitHub Actions
## A Simple CI/CD Pipeline
You’ve learned about CI/CD systems using GitLab and Jenkins. Both are good systems, but they also have different features, and use cases. We will look into another CI/CD system named GitHub Actions that debuted on 13 November 2019. GitHub Actions is a CI/CD system that is built-in to GitHub with free and paid offerings.
### 1. Create a new repository 
First, we need to create a repository in our GitHub account by visiting https://github.com/new.
Create a repository named django.nv, you can also check the box with Public or Private options, and please ignore Initialize this repository with section for now.
Click the Create repository button.
### 2. Create a Personal Access Token (PAT)
Next, we will create and use PAT for git authentication in DevSecOps Box because GitHub will not support account passwords starting August 2021.
Let’s create PAT by visiting https://github.com/settings/tokens, clicking Generate new token button then selecting repo and workflow in the scopes.
Provide your token a name e.g. django.
```
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
```
### 3. Initial git setup
To work with git repositories via Command Line Interface (CLI), aka terminal/command prompt, we need to set up a user and an email. We can use git config command to configure git user and email.
```sh
git config --global user.email "your_email@gmail.com"
git config --global user.name "your_username"
```
You need to use your email and username, which are registered in GitHub.
Don’t use your company’s GitHub credentials or token to practice these exercises.

### 4. Download the repository
Let’s start by cloning django.nv in DevSecOps Box.
```sh
git clone https://gitlab.practical-devsecops.training/pdso/django.nv.git
```
By cloning the above repository, we created a local copy of the remote repository.
cd into this repository to explore its content.
```sh
cd django.nv
```
Since this repository was cloned from Gitlab, the remote URL of this Git repository is going to point to the GitLab URL. Let’s rename the repository’s Git URL to point to GitHub, enabling us to push our code to GitHub.
```sh
git remote rename origin old-origin
```
In the command below, please change “username” with your GitHub username.
```
git remote add origin https://github.com/username/django.nv.git
```
Let’s check the status of our git repository.
```sh
git status
**Output**
On branch master
Your branch is up to date with 'old-origin/master'.

nothing to commit, working tree clean
```
We are in the master branch and we need to create one more branch called main as a default branch.
```sh
git checkout -b main
```
Why do we need a new branch? Because in this exercise we will use the main branch as a control to run the pipeline in every commit. If you don’t do this, you will not be able to see any pipeline in your repository.
Then, push the code to the GitHub repository.
```sh
git push -u origin main
```
And enter your GitHub credentials when prompted (please use Personal Access Token as a password), then the code will be pushed to the GitHub repository.

### 5. Add a workflow file to the repository
To use GitHub Actions, you need to create .github/workflows directory and create a new YAML file named main.yaml or any other desired name because each file in the .github/workflows directory which has a .yaml extension will define a workflow.

Let’s create a simple workflow by entering the following commands in DevSecOps Box.
```sh
mkdir -p .github/workflows
```
```sh
cat >.github/workflows/main.yaml<<EOF
name: Django                                  # workflow name

on:
  push:                                       
    branches:                                 # similar to "only" in GitLab
      - main

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04                    # similar to "image" in GitLab
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Setup python
        uses: actions/setup-python@v2
        with:
          python-version: '3.6'

      - run: |
          pip3 install --upgrade virtualenv
          virtualenv env
          source env/bin/activate
          pip install -r requirements.txt
          python manage.py check

  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    needs: build
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Setup python
        uses: actions/setup-python@v2
        with:
          python-version: '3.6'

      - run: |
          pip3 install --upgrade virtualenv
          virtualenv env
          source env/bin/activate
          pip install -r requirements.txt
          python manage.py test taskManager

  integration:
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    needs: test
    steps:
      - run: echo "This is an integration step"
      - run: exit 1
        continue-on-error: true

  prod:
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    needs: integration
    steps:
      - run: echo "This is a deploy step."
EOF
```
If you are not comfortable with the syntax, explore the GitHub Actions syntax athttps://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#about-yaml-syntax-for-workflows

Let’s add this file to the repository and commit the changes.
```sh
git add .github/workflows/main.yaml
git commit -m "Add github workflows"
```
### 6. Push the changes to the repository
Since git is a decentralized source code management system, all changes are made in your local git repository. You have to push these changes to the remote server for the committed changes to reflect on the remote git repository.
Push the changes to the remote git repository using the git push command.
```sh
git push origin main
**Output**
Counting objects: 5, done.
Delta compression using up to 16 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (3/3), done.
Writing objects: 100% (5/5), 577 bytes | 577.00 KiB/s, done.
Total 5 (delta 1), reused 0 (delta 0)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (1/1), completed with 1 local object.
To https://github.com/username/django.nv.git
   df066a2..98e754f  main -> main
```
### 7. Verify the pipeline runs
Any change to the repo will kick start the pipeline.
Can see the result of the pipeline by visiting our django.nv repository, clicking the Actions tab, and selecting the appropriate workflow name to see the output.
You can find more details at https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/introduction-to-github-actions#jobs.

## Embed SonarQube Scan in GitHub Actions
Login into SonarQube using the following details.

|Name|	Value|
|:---|:---|
|Sonarqube URL|	https://sonarqube-acsrq8h9.lab.practical-devsecops.training|
|Login|	admin|
|Password|	pdso-training|

First, we will be given some options about the location of the project. Please select Manually.
Then, we will create a new project by filling the form with the following details and click Set Up button once you are done.
|Name	|Value|
|:----|:----|
|Project display name|	Django|
|Project key|	Django|

> Note The project key is a unique identifier for your project and has to be different for each project.

Next, select With GitHub Actions option and we will create credentials to save our SonarQube token using secrets in our repository.

To set up a secret, go back to django.nv repository and click the Settings tab.

Click the Secrets option, then select New repository secret and add the following credentials into it.

Name	Value
Name	SONAR_TOKEN
Value	Paste the token we just generated in SonarQube
Name	Value
Name	SONAR_HOST_URL
Value	https://sonarqube-acsrq8h9.lab.practical-devsecops.training
Once done, click the Add secret button.

Click on the continue button, choose the language as Other, and follow the last step (ignore second step).

Let’s head back to the DevSecOps Box machine and copy the below content to the .github/workflows/main.yaml file under test job.

  sonarqube:
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      with:
        fetch-depth: 0

    - name: SonarQube Scan
      uses: sonarsource/sonarqube-scan-action@master
      env:
        SONAR_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SONAR_TOKEN }}
        SONAR_HOST_URL: ${{ secrets.SONAR_HOST_URL }}
      with:
        projectBaseDir: .
        args: >
          -Dsonar.projectKey=Django
Commit, and push the changes to GitHub.

Any change to the repo will kick start the pipeline.

We can see the result of the pipeline by visiting our django.nv repository, clicking the Actions tab, and selecting the appropriate workflow name to see the output.
